README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/VyomaUI.svg" alt="Vyoma UI" width="120" height="120" />
  
  # Vyoma UI
  
  **Beautiful, accessible React components with smooth animations**

  [![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3.2-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/srijanbaniyal/vyoma-ui/releases)
  [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
  [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-Ready-blue?style=flat-square)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

  [🚀 Get Started](#-quick-start) • [📖 Components](#-components) • [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
</div>

## ✨ Why Vyoma UI?

Vyoma UI (VUI) is a modern React component library built on top of [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/), taking it to the next level with enhanced design patterns, improved usability, and a streamlined developer experience. While shadcn/ui provides excellent building blocks, VUI adds the spatial wisdom and design philosophy that makes creating beautiful interfaces effortless.

- 🎯 **Copy & Paste** - No complex setup, just beautiful components
- ⚡ **Lightweight** - Only what you need, when you need it
- 🎨 **Customizable** - Built with Tailwind CSS for easy theming
- 📱 **Responsive** - Works perfectly on all devices
- ♿ **Accessible** - ARIA compliant with keyboard navigation
- 🌙 **Dark Mode** - Beautiful in light and dark themes
- 🚀 **Enhanced shadcn/ui** - Improved design system with consistent spacing
- 🧠 **Spatial Wisdom** - Thoughtful design that respects space and visual hierarchy

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Create a new Next.js project

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest my-vyoma-app --typescript --tailwind --eslint
cd my-vyoma-app
```

### 2. Install Shadcn UI

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

### 3. Configure your components

Follow the initialization wizard to configure your `components.json` file with the perfect settings for your project.

### 4. Start using Vyoma UI components

```jsx
// Copy any component and use it
import { MagicalButton } from "@/components/vui/buttons/MagicalButton"

export default function App() {
  return (
    <MagicalButton variant="shimmer">
      ✨ Click me!
    </MagicalButton>
  )
}
```

## 🎨 Components

Vyoma UI offers a rich collection of components across multiple categories, with over 30+ beautifully crafted components including advanced animations, backgrounds, and interactive elements.

### 🔘 Buttons & Interactive Elements

**FlipButton** • **MagneticButton** • **ShimmerButton** • **SpotLight** • **VideoButton** • **ShinyButtons**

### ✏️ Text Animations  

**AnimatedNumber** • **CountUp** • **TextDecryption** • **TypingText** • **WavingText** • **FlipText**

### 🧩 UI Elements

**BentoGrid** • **Card** • **Navigation** • **Sheet** • **Tooltip** • **WheelPicker** • **Accordion** • **Pill**

### 🌊 Backgrounds

**Tunnel** • **WavyTiles** • **Hexagonal** • **DrawingLines**

### 🎛️ Inputs & Forms

**CheckboxUpgraded** • **MagicalChatInput** • **MagicalCaret**

### 🤖 AI Components

**MagicalChatInput** • **MagicalCaret**

> **[View all components →](http://localhost:3000/showcase)**

## 🛠️ Built With

**Next.js** • **TypeScript** • **Tailwind CSS** • **Framer Motion** • **Radix UI** • **GSAP**

## 🤝 Contributing

We'd love your help making Vyoma UI even better!

- 🐛 **Report bugs** or suggest features
- 🎨 **Add new components** following our guidelines  
- 📝 **Improve documentation** or fix typos
- ⭐ **Star the repo** to show your support

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Srijan-Baniyal/vyoma-ui.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd vyoma-ui && yarn install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

**[Read our Contributing Guide →](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

## 📈 Stats

- 30+ Beautiful Components
- 100% TypeScript Ready
- Fully Accessible
- Dark Mode Support
- Responsive Design

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use in personal and commercial projects.

---

<div align="center">
  <sub>Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://srijanbaniyal.com">Srijan Baniyal</a></sub>
  <br />
  <sub>⭐ Star this on GitHub if you like this project!</sub>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: update quick start and installation instructions

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/VyomaUI.svg" alt="Vyoma UI" width="120" height="120" />
  
  # Vyoma UI
  
  **Beautiful, accessible React components with smooth animations**

  [![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3.2-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/srijanbaniyal/vyoma-ui/releases)
  [![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)
  [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-Ready-blue?style=flat-square)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

  [🚀 Get Started](#-quick-start) • [📖 Components](#-components) • [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
</div>

## ✨ Why Vyoma UI?

Vyoma UI (VUI) is a modern React component library built on top of [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/), taking it to the next level with enhanced design patterns, improved usability, and a streamlined developer experience. While shadcn/ui provides excellent building blocks, VUI adds the spatial wisdom and design philosophy that makes creating beautiful interfaces effortless.

- 🎯 **Copy & Paste** - No complex setup, just beautiful components
- ⚡ **Lightweight** - Only what you need, when you need it
- 🎨 **Customizable** - Built with Tailwind CSS for easy theming
- 📱 **Responsive** - Works perfectly on all devices
- ♿ **Accessible** - ARIA compliant with keyboard navigation
- 🌙 **Dark Mode** - Beautiful in light and dark themes
- 🚀 **Enhanced shadcn/ui** - Improved design system with consistent spacing
- 🧠 **Spatial Wisdom** - Thoughtful design that respects space and visual hierarchy

## 🚀 Quick Start

Getting started with Vyoma UI is simple. You can either clone the repository to explore all components or install it directly in your project.

### Running the Demo Locally

```bash
# Clone and run locally
git clone https://github.com/Srijan-Baniyal/vui.git
cd vui && pnpm install && pnpm dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see all components in action.

### Installing in Your Project

```bash
# Using pnpm
pnpm add vui
```

```jsx
// Copy any component and use it
import { ShimmerButton } from 'vui/buttons/ShimmerButton'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <ShimmerButton>
      ✨ Click me!
    </ShimmerButton>
  )
}
```

## 🎨 Components

Vyoma UI offers a rich collection of components across multiple categories, with over 30+ beautifully crafted components including advanced animations, backgrounds, and interactive elements.

### 🔘 Buttons & Interactive Elements

**FlipButton** • **MagneticButton** • **ShimmerButton** • **SpotLight** • **VideoButton** • **ShinyButtons**

### ✏️ Text Animations  

**AnimatedNumber** • **CountUp** • **TextDecryption** • **TypingText** • **WavingText** • **FlipText**

### 🧩 UI Elements

**BentoGrid** • **Card** • **Navigation** • **Sheet** • **Tooltip** • **WheelPicker** • **Accordion** • **Pill**

### 🌊 Backgrounds

**Tunnel** • **WavyTiles** • **Hexagonal** • **DrawingLines**

### 🎛️ Inputs & Forms

**CheckboxUpgraded** • **MagicalChatInput** • **MagicalCaret**

### 🤖 AI Components

**MagicalChatInput** • **MagicalCaret**

> **[View all components →](http://localhost:3000/showcase)**

## 🛠️ Built With

**Next.js** • **TypeScript** • **Tailwind CSS** • **Framer Motion** • **Radix UI** • **GSAP**

## 🤝 Contributing

We'd love your help making Vyoma UI even better!

- 🐛 **Report bugs** or suggest features
- 🎨 **Add new components** following our guidelines  
- 📝 **Improve documentation** or fix typos
- ⭐ **Star the repo** to show your support

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Srijan-Baniyal/vyoma-ui.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd vyoma-ui && yarn install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

**[Read our Contributing Guide →](CONTRIBUTING.md)**

## 📈 Stats

- 30+ Beautiful Components
- 100% TypeScript Ready
- Fully Accessible
- Dark Mode Support
- Responsive Design

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use in personal and commercial projects.

---

<div align="center">
  <sub>Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://srijanbaniyal.com">Srijan Baniyal</a></sub>
  <br />
  <sub>⭐ Star this on GitHub if you like this project!</sub>
</div>
